Let's take a look at another tool in the Docker toolbox called Docker Machine.
Now Docker Machine can be used to create and manage your local
machines that you're going to be working,
for instance, on your development environment machine.
It can also be used to create and manage different cloud machines,
such as ones on AWS or Azure or other cloud‑based providers.
But we're going to mainly be using it to manage our local machines.
Now, as mentioned, if you're on Mac or Windows,
you are going to have VirtualBox because Docker out of the box is either
going to be running when the Docker containers run,
I should say, on either Linux or on a Windows server.
Now we're going to mainly leverage the Linux features here.
And so for us to interact with that, we need a way to host it.
And that, of course, is what VirtualBox does.
And so Docker Machine will let us start and stop and
create different virtual machine images.
Now it can also configure the environment so that when you pull up a
command line bash type shell in Windows or on Mac,
that you can use the Docker commands to manage your images,
start and stop your containers, and perform those types of operations.
Now there are a few commands that we need to know to get started.
And I'm just going to show you a quick list of a few of the key commands.
These are not things you need to memorize because I'm going
to be using these throughout the course.
But they are good to know.
So one of the commands is called docker‑machine ls.
Now Docker Machine is the actual command line tool,
and then ls is the command we're going to run.
So this would list all the different machines that we
can issue Docker commands against.
Now what do I mean by machine?
Well, out of the box,
you're going to see in a moment that when you install Docker,
you're going to get one VirtualBox machine set up called default.
Now you can certainly set up others, but when you first get started,
one is good enough.
And so we'll have default,
and we can use Docker Machine to list that and any others that you might create.
That's what the ls command does.
Now we can also start and stop our virtual machines,
and so dockermachine start, and then machine name would be whatever it is.
As mentioned, default is the default name of the machine,
so we can use the start command or we could use the stop command.
That's how you can easily start and stop one of the VirtualBox images
on Mac or Windows if you'd like. We can also configure the environment
for a machine. This is really important,
and I'll be showing this in just a moment.
But when you first pull up a command line terminal window,
you're going to want to issue some Docker commands to manage your
images, your containers, and things like that,
and you first need to make sure that Docker knows what machine it's going to be
interacting with during that terminal session. So you'll see in a moment I'm
going to use docker‑machine env command to do that.
Now we can also get the IP address of a given machine, and that's useful as we
start to test our containers that are running. For instance,
we might pull up a browser and want to call into the
machine and call a specific container,
and we'll be demonstrating that as we move along as well
throughout the course. So these are some of the key commands
that you can use for Docker Machine.
There are certainly others,
but these are the ones you need to know to get started. So let's take a look at an example of some of these commands in action.